
Department Name/ Institute Name 	Department of Computer Science and Engineering / Chitkara University Institute of Engineering & Technology
Program Name	BE-Computer Science and Engineering
Course Code	CSL4209
Course Name	Client Side Technologies
Lecture / Tutorial (per week)	4-0-0	Course Credits	4
Course Coordinator Name	Er. Saravjeet Singh

Scope and Objectives of the Course
To provide knowledge of markup language (HTML) and to enable students to build user friendly websites.
To provide the skills and project-based experience needed for entry into web design and development careers.
Students will be able to use a variety of strategies and tools to create websites.
Recommended Books
	RB1: ‘Web Enabled Commercial Application Development using HTML, JavaScript, DHTML and PHP’ by        Ivan Bayross , 4th Edition, BPB Publications.
	RB2: ‘The Complete Reference HTML & XHTML’ by Thomas Powell, 4th Edition, Tata McGraw-Hill 	  Company Limited.
RB3: ‘HTML 4.0’ by E. Stephen Mack, Janan Platt, Anaya Multimedia publication.
RB4: ‘Mastering HTML, CSS & JAVA Script Web Publishing’ by Laura Lemay, Rafe Coburn, Jennifer Kyrnin,     7th edition, SAMS publication.  
RB 5: ‘Learning web designing: a beginner's guide to HTML, CSS, JavaScript,and web graphics’ by Niederst    Robbins, 4th Edition, Oreilly Publication.
RB 6: ‘jQuery in action’ by Bear Bibeault, 2nd Edition, dreamtech publication.
RB7: Html5 Black Book : Covers Css3 Javascript Xml Xhtml Ajax Php And Jquery
by Kogent Learning Solutions Inc.
3.  Other readings and relevant websites
Sr No.	Link of Journals, Magazines, websites and Research Papers 
1.	https://www.w3schools.com/
2.	http://www.quirksmode.org/dom/intro.html
3.	https://www.codeschool.com/courses/front-end-foundations
4.	https://www.w3schools.com/jquery/ 
5.	http://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105084/13 
Course Plan
Lecture Number
	Topics
1	Web programming and HTML5: Introduction to web programming, client server architecture, DNS, latest trends, static and dynamic content, WWW3C standards, difference between HTML & HTML5. 
2	Basics of HTML5, understanding document tags.
HTML5 formatting: Formatting tags e.g. font, Bold, italic, super script, subscript, delete, mark etc. 
3	HTML5 Quotations: q tag, blockquote, Code, abbreviation, address, cite, bi-directional override tag, header, footer and output Tag, meta data and meta tag
4-5	Lists: Ordered, Unordered, Definition List.
Introduction to LINK: anchor element, internal linking and external linking, attribute of anchor tag
6-7	Images: image basics, image tag, Image alignment, image map and all the attributes of image and map.
8-9	Table: Table tag with attributes like width, alignment, cell spacing, cell padding, cell alignment, borders rules , rows, cells, rowspan,  colspan, header, footer, body sections, captions and background images
10-11	HTML Frames: Introduction to frameset tag, frame tag, iframes and respective attributes.
12-14	Form: Creating form, add labels, text box, check box, radio buttons, password, pull down menus and button to a form , Use of clickable image as a submit button, pass information between forms (action ,method).
15-17	DHTML and CSS: Introduction to DHTML, introduction to CSS3, ways to Insert CSS in HTML document (External Style Sheet, Internal Style Sheet, Inline Styles), CSS id and class, div and span tag.
18-20	CSS background: background color, background image (repeat horizontally or vertically, set position and no-repeat)
CSS Text: text color, text alignment, text decoration
CSS Font: style, family, Size
CSS lists, CSS Links
21-23	CSS Tables: Table borders, collapse borders, table width and height ,table text alignment, table padding, table color
CSS border: style, width, color
CSS margin: margin, padding
	